Alhamdulillah, Rabbul Aalamin, Ar-Rahman, Ar-Raheem, Maliki, Yawm, Al-Deen, Iyaka, Na'bud, Wa-Iyaka, Nasta'i'een,
Ehdina, Sirata, Al-Mustaqeem, Sirata, Al-Ladin, Al-Aamta, Alayhim, Ghayri, Al-Mawdhub, Alayhim,
Bismillah, Ar-Rahman, Ar-Raheem, Alhamdulillah, Rabbul Aalamin,
We praise Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala, we send blessings and salutations upon the Masterpiece Muhammad, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
his entire household and all his companions, may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless them all and may he bless every single one of us.
My beloved brothers and sisters in Islam, as you know, the second Taraweeh has just been read and we have entered into the second day of Ramadan.
And before we know it, believe me, the entire month will have come to an end.
Every year, the Ramadan passes quicker than the previous year and that is the prophecy of Muhammad, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
So just hold in, don't be lazy because Shaytan comes to us and he tends to whisper in our ears and we become lazy after that.
So after we have had a good start, we tend to become more slack and after that we regret at the end of the month thinking to ourselves,
why didn't we do this and do that? It was only but a month.
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to bless us.
As promised yesterday, we look at the darkness surrounding the Arabian Peninsula just before the birth of Muhammad, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
In fact, the darkness that the whole globe was upon.
If you take a look at in India, how a woman was treated,
she was such that if her husband died, there was no chance of marrying again.
Most of them burned themselves to death because they were taught that.
They were brainwashed to believe that that was their system and they believed in reincarnation.
When a person dies up to today, there are some who believe that the person reappears in the form of some either bird or snake,
depending on whether they led a good life or a bad one.
I remember one of the sisters once in my own community telling me
that they had some people visiting them after the death of one of the relatives
and as they walked out, they saw a dove sitting on one of the branches of a tree
and they looked at this dove and they said, oh, that must be this person.
And when I was told, I thought to myself, well, this dove was alive well before the death of this person.
But look at how the people's minds are, the darkness at the time of Muhammad, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
or just prior to his time, if you take a look at the Arabian Peninsula,
religiously, as we mentioned yesterday, they worshiped idols,
so much so that they made idols out of stones
and when they found a better stone, they would throw away what they used to worship for so many years.
And when they had a big problem, they would go to someone who had a bigger stone to say,
hang on, can I borrow your God because I've got an issue, big problem.
Allahu Akbar, imagine the brains of the people and Umar ibn Al-Khattab radi Allahu Anhu,
he actually says, as intelligent as he was, he says, we made a God out of dates
and you know, we could shape it up much more easily than stone.
So we shaped it up and it was so nice and one day I was very hungry,
asking the God for food, food, no food came, I ate the God.
Allahu Akbar, ate the God.
So this was the type of mentality around the darkness.
They believed in lots of superstition, as we mentioned last night.
See something and they believed, oh, this means that will happen and that means this will happen.
And if this happens, then this. If you see a cinnamon, then that.
If someone is having hiccups, then another person is remembering them.
If you sneeze once, that means someone has remembered you and so on.
This had all come from that particular time and it seeped through across the globe.
For your information, to this day, some of us are guilty of believing in some of these superstitious items.
So thereafter, if you look at one of their habits, they visited the fortune tellers.
Anything happened, they went to the fortune teller and they let him solve their matter.
And these fortune tellers, they were powerful in the sense that
they knew how to study the lives of people and they had contact with the spirits.
As I mentioned yesterday, contact with the spirits, contact with the jinn is not impossible, but it is prohibited.
We are not allowed to deal in that and we are not allowed to go into that.
Although we would know how it operates and how to protect ourselves from it,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us the ability to recite the verses of the Quran that are relevant.
We recited them this evening, Ayatul Kursi, as well as the last few verses of Surah Baqarah,
the most powerful of them, and the last two Surahs of the Quran.
These are powerful Surahs which should be read every morning and evening
with the intention of dua and protection.
And then you find one of the habits they had.
They did not believe in the life after death.
They would say,
Who is going to give life to these bones after they are
decomposed completely and like dust they become?
And Allah says,
Say, He will give those bones life
who gave them the life in the first place.
So for Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to create man in the first place,
to resurrect him is even easier.
If you have no BMW and you were to make one,
you are far more a genius than a person who has just panel-beated a damaged BMW.
Simple, logic.
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a deeper understanding.
Obviously,
Allah has a far higher example than that which we just gave,
but this was only to bring it closer to our brains and minds.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala makes mention of how
when they were in difficulty, they left their gods.
They called out to the one deity who created them.
Whoever made me, I'm calling out to him.
That was when? When they had a problem.
When they had difficulties.
So like Allah says,
...
When they were on the ship and when the boat rocks a little bit,
you know when you're at sea, they would call out to Allah alone.
And as soon as they come back, what would happen?
They would immediately start engaging in their polytheism once again,
worshipping the other false deities besides Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
As for the politics, at that particular time,
people were divided into two major groups.
You find the people of the Badiyah,
the people of the desert and the people of the cities.
And up to today, you find those, mashaAllah,
who are living in smaller towns have far greater hearts.
They have far better qualities than those who are in the city,
who don't even have time to greet you.
They don't even have time to be hospitable,
whereas the slow life of those who are further away, mashaAllah,
one of the secrets why we are here in Polokwani, inshaAllah.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
and make our hearts pure at all times.
Wallahi, it's a point of goodness.
I feel really that this is about to be,
if not it has already started as one of the best Ramadans.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala not make us from those who lose out.
Believe me, as I say always,
it's like a train that is passing.
You catch it, you catch it.
You missed it, everybody else caught it.
You're alone in the station.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala not make us miss our trains and planes.
I'm sure you know how it feels.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
So they had people in the cities and people out in the deserts,
in the rural areas so to speak,
but they had something in common, very strong lineage.
They were divided into tribes, families,
and they literally stood up for one another.
They would fight the other tribe
because of a problem that it had had with one particular person.
One camel goes missing, for example,
and they doubted those people or someone was caught.
The war lasted 40 years, 40 years.
People died.
The next generation did not even know why they were fighting,
but they continued fighting.
This was the type of Qabaliya they had.
They had this tribalism and they had stuck to their clans.
Sometimes it was used for the good
and sometimes it was used for the bad.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala blessed them by sending them the message.
But if we take a look at the leadership of these clans
was always with a certain type of person and family,
and usually it fell from father to child or to brother and so on,
and this was the way they led.
So the leader, the chief, and when he died,
his son took over or a relative took over,
but there was something that could raise a person from nothing.
What was that?
If someone's level was very low,
they just had to come up with some poetry,
which was so powerful linguistically and full of meaning
that it would instantly raise the rank of that individual
sometimes to the point of leadership.
Subhanallah.
Why?
They were crazy about eloquence.
So crazy.
They were the most powerful people when it came to speech.
In fact, they were unlettered.
The bulk of them, almost 100% of them could not read or write,
but linguistically they were powerful.
They hardly used slang.
And Nabi sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
as we will see later on,
as he grew up, he never used slang.
He was always the most powerful.
It is reported that he never ever made a linguistic error in his life.
Subhanallah.
Nothing.
That was his gift by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
And this is why later on we see how they looked at him
and they listened to him
and they were mesmerized by what he said.
Subhanallah.
Completely shocked.
So much so that later on the Arabic language
began to take its rules and correct itself through the Quran.
Because that was what Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam came with.
Up to this day, the kuffar, the Christian Arabs
and those who are non-Muslims from amongst the Arabs,
they still use the Quran when it comes to linguistics
in order to correct their language
and to explain to you what is right and wrong.
Subhanallah.
So if you take a look at them
from the angle of their wealth
and if you look at them economically,
what did they have?
They did not have much in terms of produce
because it barely rained.
And if it did, it was all desert.
But in certain spots, they had had the date palm
that used to grow a lot.
And they had a few other things that would grow
very, very little.
A lot of their trading happened to be
with the livestock that they had had.
They had a lot of camels, donkeys as well as
goats and sheep.
Subhanallah.
The donkeys, obviously,
they wouldn't really count them as part of livestock as non-edible.
But at the same time,
you look at the amount of goats and sheep
they had had.
Subhanallah.
And there was a difference
between those who had had camels
and those who had had goats and sheep.
Those who had had camels up to today,
those who have camels,
they have their noses high up in the air.
We have camels.
And you know, it's considered very expensive
and considered something so wealthy.
Like today, you have someone driving
the latest motor vehicle.
There, it was known as the red camel.
It was something amazing.
It had value more than the BMWs today.
I don't know what is making me repeat it,
although I don't like the vehicle myself.
Allahu Akbar.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness,
a vehicle that will serve its purpose
rather than a vehicle
that will bring about arrogance bearing in mind
that if you have the wealth,
you are allowed to buy the highest and the best
of all the vehicles you want
on condition that it does not make you arrogant.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us.
So, if we look at them,
this is what they had.
Those who had had camels were much more proud
in terms of the wrong pride
than those who had had goats and sheep
who were much more down to earth and humble.
So much so, subhanallah.
Allah has kept it such that every nabi,
every prophet of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
He started from a very early age
looking after goats and sheep.
Never was it mentioned that they were looking after camels.
It was always goat and sheep.
Al-Ghanam, Ra'i Al-Ghanam.
Ma min nabiyyin illa wa ra'a Al-Ghanam.
The Prophet salallahu alayhi wa sallam says,
there was no prophet,
except that he started off by looking after sheep.
By looking after sheep,
we will get to that inshallah a little bit later.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala gave them a gift
by sending them Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam
to remove them from the darkness of arrogance
and to make them spend in the cause
and in the good cause.
Then another thing they had had
when it came to their economic life.
If you take a look at the caravans,
they had lots of caravans that would travel
towards the north when it came to the summer
and towards the south when it came to the winter.
Because the winters up north were too cold
for them to handle.
So they used to go down towards the south,
towards Yemen.
And this is why the Quran speaks about these journeys.
Allah is speaking of the gift of the taming of Quraysh.
During both of their journeys,
that which happened in winter
and that which happened in summer.
In winter, as I said, they went south
and in summer they went up towards the north.
Why does Allah make mention of the taming of Quraysh?
Because the caravans were waylaid almost all the time.
They were hijackers and highwaymen
who came and who would steal and they were wars
and people used to have to have weapons with them
in order to fight those
who want to come and steal and usurp.
A lot of their economics was based
on how powerful they were.
The wars that took place,
they would usurp and come back.
If there were some weak tribes,
they always joined some strong tribes
and signed treaties with them
so that they could look after the smaller ones.
Because the bigger tribes sometimes
they just went in, usurped and came out.
Today it happens to us.
You find someone who is strong and powerful.
He eats the money of the weak.
Allahu Akbar.
And the weak sometimes can do nothing
unless you know someone.
When you know someone, they can fix.
Whoever is trying to fix you.
That's what has happened today.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
not make us fall prey to that.
We need to know,
no matter how powerful we think we are,
Allah is more powerful than us.
So Allah says,
Quraish was given a gift.
They used to travel north and south
so calm without anyone ever harming them.
That was a sign of Allah to say
Quraish is a chosen clan.
They used to travel north and south.
And Allah says,
Allah is making mention of their taming.
The fact that they could go with all peace
without worry of what would happen to our caravans.
Nobody touched their caravans.
Allahu Akbar.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us such that our wealth
which we've earned in a halal manner.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
protect it for us, preserve it for us.
Make it sustenance of mercy,
sustenance of goodness
and not sustenance that brings about
or brings with it lots of destruction and arrogance.
Ameen.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
gave them that gift of the peace and the calm.
But they had mixed with the Jews.
They had dealings with some Jewish people
who taught them how to charge interest.
And this is why in the people of Quraish
they began to charge interest.
And the Arabs at large, they charged interest.
Why was it wrong?
Well, at that time it was right
because to them it was right.
Although when Islam came,
Islam protected the poor by banning interest
because the interest factor makes the rich richer
and keeps the poor even poorer.
When you borrow, what happens to you?
Allahu Akbar.
May Allah safeguard us and not enslave us.
And when you lend, what happens to you?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
help us having big hearts.
May He make us from those
who can assist one another
rather than those who are milking one another
even though they're not allowed
to drink that milk.
Allahu Akbar.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
So, they had a lot of interest.
Also, they had festivals.
Some known as Ukaz and Mijannah
and Dhul-Majaz.
These were some of the festivals
that the Arabs had had
after the month of Shawwal
or in the month of Shawwal,
Dhul-Qidah and Dhul-Hijjah
in such a way that
they used to then gather in Arafah.
And they used to not deal
with anything at all.
They used to fulfill Hajj.
But what type of Hajj?
It came down from
Ibrahim A.S.
But they mixed it in such a way
that they began to worship idols
during those days.
And they worshiped idols
through the morning and the evenings.
And they would then remember Allah as well.
Allahu Akbar at times.
As I told you, times of need.
We do it as well.
We sin sometimes every day.
And then when we have a big problem,
we raise our hands as though
we are the most deserving
of the mercy of Allah.
But where were you?
Where were you all this time
when Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
had favoured you?
And when you were in goodness,
then you turned away
from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Now that you are in difficulty,
you want to turn to Allah.
Still Allah gives us.
But the winner is the one
who is mentioned in the Hadith
where Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
teaches us
Ta'araf ila Allahi fil rakhai
Ya'rifka fi shidda
Get close to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
at times of ease.
And Allah will get close to you
at times of your difficulty.
So these people,
they used to have their hajj,
they used to have their festivals
during specific times.
And if you look at now
the social life that was prevalent
at the time of Quraysh,
just prior to the birth
of Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
and round about that time,
you would find they were very proud
of their lineage and status.
I am the son of so and so.
Do you know who I am?
I am this and I am that.
I am this and I am that
based on their father,
Allahu Akbar.
Today what happens?
You find father works so hard,
so hard
and the son is the laziest person
in the world.
And he says,
my daddy got a shop,
I am alright, I am safe,
I am okay.
I don't know if you have heard that.
Daddy got a shop,
mashaAllah.
Your father has got a shop,
a business,
Alhamdulillah.
He sweated day in day out
in order to build it.
You, a few actions,
you can actually bring it to the ground
because you have haram habits.
What does that mean?
When a person is involved in haram,
whether it is womanizing,
drinking, gambling,
any other bad habit,
pornography,
whatever else it is,
believe me,
your sustenance crashes
and the baraka in your wealth
actually goes away.
Yet, if you had to calculate
how much Allah put into your direction,
it would be so much,
perhaps in its millions.
But where did it all go?
Well, you've got haram habits.
That's where it all went.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala safeguard us.
Inna ar-rajula la yuhramur rizqu bi dhanbi yusibuhu.
A man is blocked from sustenance
because of the sins he commits sometimes.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
You can never achieve sustenance
through the displeasure
of the owner of sustenance.
Allahu akbar.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a lesson.
So these were people also who,
as I said,
they were very, very eloquent.
They used to love listening to poetry.
They used to love listening to eloquence.
If a man came up with a statement
that was full in meaning,
wallahi, they listened to it.
And they got so excited
that they raised that man's ranks.
They actually gave him sometimes wealth
and they made him wealthy from amongst them
just because he could talk
and he had a tongue.
Allahu akbar.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
Then there was a very big issue.
Now if you notice,
some of these habits of theirs were good
and some of them were bad.
Speaking of one of the worst habits,
the treatment of the women.
Women were treated as commodities
and nikah or marriage
was something very, very absurd at that time.
People used to marry.
One category of people used to marry correctly
where someone wants to marry,
they go and speak to the guardians of the female
and they arrange it and the nikah is done.
That remained even after Islam.
But sometimes they used to marry
in a very strange way.
A man owed another man money
so he would take his wife along, his women along
and he would say,
right, you can have these,
you can impregnate my wife
and when she is pregnant,
you send her back to me,
that child will hold your name.
A'udhu Billah.
Imagine what type of ignorance.
Today on the globe,
they have something known as swinging
where people swap their wives.
It happens even in the midst of some ignorant Muslims.
They swap their wives for a weekend
in order to have fun.
That is exactly the Jahiliyyah
of the pre-Islamic era.
May Allah never return us to that.
It happened to them,
it's repeating itself with us,
but in a different way
and people are conning the women folk
that you know what,
this is interesting.
Wallahi you get nowhere.
Nowhere do you get with that
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala blessed us
by removing us from this darkness.
Another way of marriage was,
a woman who needed a bit of wealth
would put a flag up by her home
and people would come to her
literally as though she was a prostitute
and each one would do
whatever he would like
and thereafter pay her a bit.
And if she was expecting,
she chose one of them
and she said,
it's your child
and nobody could say no.
So the child would be called
after the man there
and she would choose the most honored
so that that child could be brought up
under the guardianship of some strange man.
I seek refuge with Allah.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala safeguard us.
And they had a fourth type of marriage as well.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us.
Mentioning some of these things
is actually irrelevant,
but the only reason why I repeat this is,
today we are returning to some of these habits
with different names
and we are returning to the Jahiliyya
and the ignorance that was pre-Islam,
the darkness.
It is called the darkest of darkness.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
take us out of that.
And then if you look at the divorce of a woman,
oh, the men would just come and say,
okay, I divorce you.
You're divorced.
And next thing they say,
no, I take you back.
Divorce you, take you back.
And the woman,
nobody would say anything
because they were so embarrassed
to even bear female children
that whenever there was a female child,
they used to take, they were very upset.
Their faces became blackened.
Whenever any one of them was informed
of a female child,
their faces would be blackened
and they would become angry.
They would want to hide behind the walls
because of the bad news
that they had just received.
And they would take the child,
one of the Sahaba,
رضي الله عنهم,
he says,
in my period of ignorance,
I buried my daughter,
she was so beautiful,
such that she was saying,
daddy, what are you doing?
What are you doing?
And she began to wipe off
the little sand that was on my beard
and as she's doing that,
I kept on putting more and more sand on her
until she realized what was happening
and she began to kick
and then I covered her completely
and let her die,
أعوذ بالله.
So the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
asked him,
this was after Islam,
didn't you feel in your heart
a little bit of mercy,
سبحان الله,
الله أكبر
and obviously the heart positively
felt a lot of mercy,
but because of the people.
Sometimes we are embarrassed
when our own children
make a little bit of a noise
and we want to clap them up in public
just because we want to show the others
that you know what,
I'm trying to look after my child,
that's not the time
to admonish your child,
take them home quietly,
just like how none of us
would like to be told in public,
so your children also don't like to be told
in front of the guests at home
and it is wrong for you
to admonish them
in full view of the public,
it reduces their confidence levels.
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى help us,
may He guide us
to be true guides to our own children
although we ourselves need guidance.
So this was the condition of the people,
they used to divorce as they wished
and take back as many times,
so Allah later on revealed a verse,
الطلاق مرتان
فإمساكن بمعروفٍ
أو تسريح بإحسان
you can only divorce twice,
you take back once if you want,
second time you can take back,
the minute the third طلاق drops
or is given,
you cannot take back until
and we read these verses this evening
coincidentally in the surah that we read
and Allah سبحانه وتعالى says
until she marries again,
I need to pause there for a moment,
why is it the case?
Most of us don't even know
how to divorce in Islam
and people think you just
dish out three talaqs and walk away,
never ever do that,
that is worse than a hooligan,
worse than an animal,
it is very sinful to dish out one, two, three,
very sinful,
if you would want,
you need to be calm,
you need to relax,
people say I gave my talaq in anger,
well what do you expect,
do you think people would now
be sitting with coffee and say
my wife I divorce you,
would that happen?
Allahu Akbar,
may Allah سبحانه وتعالى
never make us people
who are foolish,
when angry,
watch your tongue,
control yourself,
calm down,
if you really cannot get along,
one talaq more than enough,
you don't need to issue the second,
you don't,
not at all,
may Allah سبحانه وتعالى
protect us,
then if you want to get back,
you can get back,
no need to marry someone else and so on,
why is it that the third time
she cannot get back to you,
because three whole times
you tried so hard
and she couldn't appreciate you
or you could not appreciate her,
she will never be able to live with you
unless she has gone to someone else
and has had an opportunity
to compare you with someone else
to the degree that she could not
get along with him
and was divorced from him
and now she says
let me go back to that man,
he was much better,
there were only 10 things wrong with him,
this guy there's 100 things wrong with him,
now there's a chance of it working,
so this is the logic behind it,
whereas we think no,
well you know what,
there was a man in Britain
who told me once that
you know I used to do halalas,
you know what's a halala,
for your information,
it's haram,
la'anallahu al-muhallil wal-muhallal,
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
has cursed the one
whom a halala is done for
and the one who does it,
where people divorce one, two, three,
and they have divorced their wives,
they want to get back,
so they tell their friends,
you know what, let's work around this,
you marry her for one night,
tomorrow morning you divorce her again,
when she's finished her iddah
she'll get back to me,
so the man says astaghfirullah,
he says I used to do this,
and he says until one day,
oh there was such a princess
who came in my direction,
I refused to divorce her,
he says now she's my wife,
I've got so many children with her,
subhanallah,
Allah protect us,
yet that is jahiliya,
Allah curses those who do that,
why do we not control our tongues,
for what,
why do we have to be so foolish
and then run to the ulama for help
when we have shot ourselves
three times in the chest
with our own gun,
the bullet piercing straight through the heart
and we still want to resuscitate,
the ignorance,
that was the time of jahiliya,
before Islam,
they divorced as they wished,
took back,
so the woman was always hanging,
she didn't know
whether she was coming or going,
and then Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
blessed them with Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam,
now if you take a look at some of the good qualities
that they had had,
they were very intelligent
and their memories were very very powerful,
they could tell you the lineage
of the camels they had had,
this camel is the child of this one,
this one, this one,
seven generations back,
today we don't even know
our own forefathers,
seven generations back,
how many of us,
it's a challenge,
can mention your father, grandfather,
great grandfather, great great grandfather,
going back seven,
some are saying yes,
you probably are not from this country originally,
because with us who are born here,
we have become very lazy with lineage,
we barely know the names of our great grandfathers,
let alone greater than that,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us
the memory of those people
who knew the lineage of even their animals,
Subhanallah,
that's how powerful they were,
and remember one thing,
to fulfill,
this is a very important point,
to fulfill your duties to your relatives
is not possible unless you know
who your relatives are,
many of us don't even know how we are related,
Subhanallah,
and yet we are related,
then if we take a look,
they were people who were very honoring
of the guests in most cases,
they used to honor their guest,
you find a person like Hatim al-Ta'i,
and so many others,
Abdullah ibn Jad'an,
he was a very, very generous person,
anyone came with any story
of how they were in debt and so on,
he would sort it out for them,
he was a poor man,
and one day he found a lot of wealth,
and he kept it,
and he went to one of the elders and said,
I found a lot of wealth,
what should I do?
He says, well,
you rather help people because that will result
in you being remembered after you die,
so he started helping everyone with wealth,
he was known as very honoring,
you see people of that time,
when a guest came,
they said, yes, yes, come home,
you have a meal,
and what they would do,
they would slaughter their animals,
...
How can you ask me about food in my home
when this camel of mine
that I'm riding with
is right in front of you,
let's cut it out right now,
and we can enjoy a meal,
...
whereas nowadays,
you try to call a man,
he doesn't even answer your call,
why?
Perhaps he owes you money,
Allahu Akbar,
it happens,
that's when the calls are not answered,
and then what happens,
people coming home,
Alhamdulillah,
it happens sometimes because
of the different situations
that people are in,
and people say,
okay, you know what,
I'll let you know tomorrow,
that means it's not coming,
don't worry,
let you know tomorrow means
it's not coming,
so those people had good habits
which we need to learn from,
they were honoring of their guests,
very generous people also,
they also had generosity,
then they were very, very courageous,
that was something else,
they would go out with all valor,
they would fight in the cause
of protecting their own people
and their tribes,
they had lots of courage,
if their fathers or relatives died in battle,
they were very, very proud of the fact
that this person died
whilst protecting this tribe of ours,
or the clan,
or the city and so on,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us some form of courage,
some of us,
do not even have courage
to kill a fly,
let alone to protect ourselves
or our family members,
someone walks over your wife
or your children
and swears them in front of you,
and you can't even say,
look, please,
can you understand,
do not do this,
sometimes we're just silent,
we watch oppression
and we enjoy watching it
to the degree
that we are silent
and we prod it,
you see,
if you don't stop oppression,
the first time it happens,
it will repeat itself,
the hadith of the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam says,
you must make sure
that you stop the oppressor,
if you don't,
you will begin to make du'a,
du'a, du'a
and Allah will not respond to that du'a
because you did not help yourself
by stopping the oppressing people,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
protect us from oppression
and may He make us stop
those who are oppressing others.
So, another thing that they loved
was to fulfill a promise,
when they made a promise,
they made a promise,
they would fulfill a promise,
when they made a promise,
they would fulfill it,
in most cases,
they were a few examples
of when they did not do that,
but the whole community
would team up against them,
also,
they were happy with very little,
they lived in the heat,
they were happy with small amounts
of food and drink
and they were people
who were always excited
and they were always happy people,
but they worshipped idols
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
speaks about how
these people were also quite strong,
they had strong bodies
and they were very muscular,
and they used to compete
with one another,
they used to fight as well,
and they used to protect
one another at the same time,
when I say fighting,
the fighting was more
with other clans,
within themselves,
they tried their best
not to allow this unity
to overtake him.
And then it's important for us
to make mention of two
very, very important incidents
that occurred just before
the birth of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
one of them was the story of Zamzam,
very interesting story,
the grandfather of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
his name was Abdul Muttalib,
this Abdul Muttalib
was one of the leaders of Quraysh,
Sayyidul Qawm,
he was the top of Quraysh,
and he used to have,
he was a powerful, beautiful,
meaning handsome man,
very strong,
and people looked at him,
listened to him,
he was extremely eloquent as well,
and his place was right
in the shade of the Kaaba,
and he had a special mat
which they laid for him,
and he would sit on there,
nobody would ever dare sit on that mat,
he would sit on it,
and he would dish out instructions and so on,
and he had 11 children,
Subhanallah, 11 sons,
and from amongst his sons was also
Abdullah the father of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
he had various others,
and what happened is one day he says
that I was sleeping in Al-Hijr,
Al-Hijr is the part of the Kaaba,
nowadays you find a little crescent
sort of structure,
it used to be within the Kaaba
at a certain stage,
and when they did not have halal funds
to actually build it in that shape,
they left it more or less like a cube,
and that part,
although it was in the Kaaba,
is now out of it,
so if you are reading Salah in it,
it's as though you are reading Salah in the Kaaba,
so this man was resting there,
and he saw a dream,
in his dream he was told to dig,
tayba,
so he asked what is tayba,
anyway the dream came to an end,
the next day he was in the same place,
he had a dream,
and he was told to dig barra,
he asked what is barra,
and the dream came to an end,
and the third day he saw a dream,
and the historians all make mention of this,
and he was told to dig madmoona,
and he asked what is that,
and the dream came to an end,
the fourth day he saw a dream,
and he was told to dig zamzam,
so he asked what is it,
he was told it is a well that will never deplete,
everyone can drink from it,
water will gush from it forever and ever,
it was there,
he was basically informed exactly where its spot was,
and he was told its history,
and he was told where it was,
so he got up in the morning,
he got one of his children al-harith,
according to one of the narrations,
and the two of them began to dig,
and Quraysh was watching,
Quraysh obviously they all related to one another,
somehow they have different clans
depending on the children,
and the children like we have so many brothers,
each brother a different clan starts from one,
so they watched him,
when he started saying Allahu Akbar,
imagine these were people of ignorance,
but they still used terminologies referring to Allah,
because as I said when they had issues,
they referred it to Allah again,
but they used to worship others besides Allah,
like sometimes what happens in our midst,
we worship Allah alone,
but then sometimes we happen to worship this and that,
and sticks and stones and graves and so on,
and all this is against the law of Allah,
the whole reason why Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
was sent was to remove mankind from worshiping man
to worshiping the creator of man,
Subhanallah,
so let's not lose focus on this,
so when he said Allahu Akbar,
Quraysh came around,
the people came around,
they saw yes there is water here,
they started debating,
hey this water belongs to our forefather,
who is your forefather?
Ismail, alayhi salat wa salam,
and this water came from that time,
yes and this water belongs to all of us,
not to you,
he said no,
it was in my dream,
I was instructed,
had I not been instructed,
you would have not known about it,
so they decided okay,
let's go to someone who can be a judge between us,
we don't want to fight amongst us,
and they decided we will go to someone from Bani Sa'd,
a little bit further up north,
close to where Sham is,
very very far from the Arabian Peninsula,
so a group of them got together,
the leaders and they left,
they had a little bit of food with them,
and they got to a point where the desert stretched and stretched,
they ran out of food and ran out of water,
and now all of them were preparing for death,
Abdul Muttalib and all his clansmen
and the others who were debating
going to this one fortune teller,
so what had happened is they decided okay,
it's all over,
the game is over,
we cannot go back nor can we go further,
every one of us is going to die,
the best and most noble thing to do,
let's all start digging our graves,
whilst we have a little bit of energy,
the one who dies first will be buried by those who are to die later,
so in that way only one will be left out,
but even he can go down and really get ready to sleep,
Allahu Akbar,
so this was their plan,
they started digging,
and as they started digging and preparing for death,
what happened?
Abdul Muttalib walked towards his camel,
and suddenly from its feet,
water started gushing miraculously from the feet of this animal,
which belonged to Abdul Muttalib,
at a distance from where everyone was,
and immediately they were all shocked,
this was before Islam,
and they immediately said,
this is a sign that your well is the well of Zamzam,
meaning you will be the leader,
you will be in charge of that water,
it's not like he was going to have it for himself,
everyone was going to be obviously quenched from the water of Zamzam,
but at the same time who was going to be the leader,
that was what was being discussed,
so they immediately acknowledged,
they drank from the water,
and they said now let's go back,
no point to go further,
they went back,
and Abdul Muttalib was the one responsible for that water,
he used to feed,
he used to give the hajjis water,
those who used to come for that pagan hajj,
as we made mention of,
and everyone drank from that water to this day,
the water is gushing out of that spot in Makkah al-Mukarramah,
all of us know that,
and I think in all our homes,
we have some of that water known as Zamzam,
the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم later says,
the water of Zamzam is for whatever intention it is drunk for,
you want to drink it to be cured,
you will be cured,
you want to drink it to pass your exams,
you will pass your exams,
you want to drink it for sustenance,
you will have sustenance,
you want to drink it for any other reason,
you will have that inshallah,
for as long as it's a noble reason,
and the will of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala accepts that,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a drink from Zamzam,
and may He make us from those who can constantly have it in our homes,
for indeed it even protects from the devil.
So this was the story that was worth mentioning,
and it was a sign,
because Abdul Muttalib for your information was already informed
by certain people,
one was the King of Yemen,
one was one of the Jewish people he had known,
and some of the fortune tellers told him that
from your lineage something big is going to happen,
one of your grandchildren is going to be a super leader,
one of your grandchildren is going to come and change everything happening here,
and he was told this constantly by various people,
and this was another sign that he was a chosen man,
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala chose him to be the grandfather,
not only the grandfather,
he looked after Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam later on as we will see.
So the next story that is very very important and worth mentioning,
is the story of an Abyssinian man who became the King of Yemen,
and his name was Abraha,
and this Abraha he was the King of Yemen,
and he was a Christian man who had built a church in Yemen,
and he wanted people to flock there,
for many reasons,
to worship there as well as for business purposes,
and he was told that no we have in Mecca,
there is this house that everyone goes to,
and you need to deal with them if you want people to come here,
that was something that he spoke about,
or he was told,
so he said no problem,
I have one elephant, a big elephant,
we will take the elephant,
and we will walk through with our armies,
and we will continue,
now obviously there is a narration that says,
the vast of narration say there was just one main big elephant,
the rest were normal camels and so on,
and there are some historians who say no,
it was a whole army of many elephants,
but the Quran speaks of one elephant,
Al-feel meaning one elephant,
so the people of the elephant,
big huge elephant,
and there were armies that came with,
and they started marching towards Mecca,
when they were outside somewhere near Taif,
they sent a messenger to say go and look for the Sayyid,
the leader of these people and tell them,
we don't want to fight,
we are coming destroy the house and we're going back,
so Abdul Muttalib was the leader,
he was told this is what the man is coming for,
he said okay, let him come,
now imagine I told you moments ago,
these were courageous people,
and these people would fight to protect their dignity and so on,
this man said okay let them come,
and in the process,
the army came in and usurped more than 200 camel of Quraysh,
and Abdul Muttalib told one of these men,
look you can come and destroy the house,
no problem,
but our camels we want them back,
so the man took him to Abraha,
and Abdul Muttalib spoke to Abraha and told him,
I would like my 200 camels,
so Abraha says when I saw you,
big, huge, handsome man,
very eloquent,
I was very happy,
I thought this man here is a very honored leader here,
but now that you're asking a favor,
you have expressed your foolishness,
we are coming to destroy your honor here,
we are coming to destroy the house,
and you want to ask for your camels which is minor,
it's a small item,
so he says the camels belong to us,
we need them back,
as for the house,
it has a lord who will protect it,
that's it,
Subhanallah,
and he walked away,
he was given the camels,
and these people started proceeding towards the Kaaba,
the elephant refused to go further,
it stopped,
amazing,
and they began to beat it,
it refused,
didn't go further,
when they turned it around,
and beat it,
it went running,
when they stopped it,
and turned it back around,
it stopped again,
Subhanallah,
who stopped it?
Allah,
Subhanahu wa ta'ala,
and as they progressed,
the armies began to move towards the Kaaba,
no sooner did they come closer to it,
then they noticed birds from nowhere in the skies,
and these birds had three little pebbles each,
the size of a pea,
and even smaller,
small little pebbles,
made of clay,
and from a very high altitude,
they released these pebbles,
and the pebbles came down at such force,
you know today we have,
we learn about gravity,
and we learn about Newton,
and this one and that one,
Wallahi,
if you take a look at this explanation of Surat Al-Fil,
you will come to realize that that altitude,
when it dropped from there,
the small pebbles,
went straight through these men,
and killed them on the spot,
and people were just watching,
Allahu Akbar,
didn't Abdul Muttalib say,
that house has a Lord,
who will protect it,
to this day,
you need to remember,
the Kaaba is protected by Allah,
Subhanahu wa ta'ala,
may Allah,
who sent those birds,
protect the Kaaba for us,
and the Haramain for us,
and may He make us from those,
who can continue going there,
in a manner that we are safe and secure,
and may we never see days,
when we are prohibited from going there,
for whatever reason.
So Allah,
Subhanahu wa ta'ala,
sent this,
and mention is made of this,
in Surat Al-Fil,
and Allah,
Subhanahu wa ta'ala,
says,
أَلَمْ تَرَكَيْفَ فَعَلَ رَبُكَ بِأَصْحَابِ الْفِيلِ
Did you not see what your Rabb has done,
to the people of the elephant,
those who came with the elephant,
Allah destroyed them,
and some of them,
whom these pebbles did not get to,
they were injured,
they went back,
and they were inflicted with disease,
so much so that Abraha himself,
his organs began to drop,
literally his fingers started falling off,
and everywhere they went,
as they went back,
they were heading back,
and his hand fell off,
next thing his leg fell off,
and then he died,
very bad death.
So these were two incidents,
that had happened,
just before the birth of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم,
then came the blessed birth,
after which,
the whole world changed,
it changed in a way,
that up to this day,
that change is felt,
and up to the end of time,
there will be people,
who will be guided by,
the word of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم.
So if you look at us,
when we look at Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم's life,
as I said,
we understand revelation,
he is the one who brought revelation,
we need to know who he was,
and his words are known as hadith,
his name was Muhammad ابن عبد الله,
ابن عبد المطلب,
ابن هاشم,
ابن عبد منف,
so he was from the clan of Banu Hashim,
who fell under Quraysh,
so his father's name was Abdullah,
his grandfather was Abdul Muttalib,
where was he born?
He was born in Makkah,
today if you travel to Makkah,
you will notice where Safa and Marwah is,
if you were to come out on that side,
you notice a large open space,
where people read Salah,
very soon it's going to be taken into the Haram,
then you will notice a building standing on its own,
known as a library,
it is reported that just there,
was the birth place of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم,
it was the house of Abu Talib,
because his father had passed away,
when he was 7 months in his mother's womb,
and the father was 25 years old, very young,
if you take a careful look at what the historians say,
they say Allah took this man away,
after his seed was planted into the mother of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم,
his job in this dunya was over,
his job in the world was over,
and he passed away 25 years old,
whilst Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
was 7 months in the womb of his mother,
and his mother Amina binti Wahab Ibn Abdi Manaf,
who was also from the similar clan of Quraysh,
she says,
it was the easiest,
the easiest gestation period,
the pregnancy was simple,
I didn't feel anything,
the childbirth was absolutely easy,
as though I didn't even give birth,
Subhanallah,
the most blessed of all creatures was just being born,
we want to go into the moment of birth,
Insha'Allah in a few moments,
so Allah سبحانه وتعالى caused the death of the father of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
in Madinah Munawwarah,
did you know that,
he passed away in Madinah Munawwarah,
he was gone to Sham,
and he came back to meet some of his relatives in Madinah,
and on his way back he passed away in Madinah Munawwarah,
Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم went back there,
at the later stage in his life,
so Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم,
when he was born,
unlike all the other children,
the narrations make mention,
that when he was born,
he came down with his hands,
his hands down,
and his face was looking up to the skies,
صلى الله عليه وسلم,
pure, already circumcised,
and his umbilical cord was already separated,
صلى الله عليه وسلم,
this is made mention by most of the narrations,
some of them say,
that the circumcision was already done,
and some say,
Abdul Muttalib did it seven days later,
and he had fed a few people,
in happiness of a grandchild being born,
and he had already known in his heart and mind,
this child is going to be someone great,
because so many people had already told him,
but they did not know he's going to be a Nabi,
from Allah سبحانه وتعالى,
but they knew he's going to come,
and something great is going to happen,
Aminah binti Wahab,
the mother of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم says,
that when I was expecting Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم,
about to deliver,
I saw a light come out of my belly,
from which the palaces of Sham were lit,
and I knew that something is happening,
and on that day it is reported that,
the fire that was worshipped by the Persians in Iran,
was extinguished and they had to rekindle it,
Allahu Akbar,
and it is reported that some of the idols,
that were placed on the Kaaba,
had dropped down on that day,
and it is reported,
that Kisra, the Kisra that was there,
the balcony part of the structure,
that made his palace had dropped on that day,
and they had to rebuild it,
Subhanallah,
and this was all signs,
these were signs later on,
which were only to be interpreted,
that this man's message,
was to get across the globe,
you know when someone dies,
what happens,
after they die we say,
but just yesterday he said,
I might not see you again,
it happens to us,
it's a sixth sense,
he did not know he was going to die,
but Allah makes him say statements,
that is a lesson for those,
who are to come later on,
and we busy and grossed in,
did he know or didn't he know,
the more important thing,
whether he knew or not,
is nothing for us,
but what is more important is,
what are you doing now,
before you get to that condition,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us all a good day,
so the same applies here,
things happened,
and later on,
they were to come to reality,
so Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
as we said,
umbilical cord separated,
already circumcised,
Subhanallah,
he came down,
looking up to the heavens,
and one narration actually makes mention,
that he was born with his finger up,
the first finger,
the finger of Shahada,
and this was to depict the fact,
that Allah is one alone,
don't worship anyone else,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us,
the tawfiq and the acceptance,
to worship him and him alone,
and then,
Subhanallah,
his mother says,
the grandfather Abdul Muttalib
loved him so much,
he was sitting where the Kaaba was,
and I covered him with a utensil,
and sent for Abdul Muttalib to be called,
so that he would be the first one to see
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
when he came,
by the time we looked back at him,
that utensil was already broken into two,
and he was there,
Subhanallah,
and the grandfather was so happy,
so happy,
that his father had already passed away,
and he made him a man,
he made him a young boy,
who was very close to him,
and Insha'Allah,
tomorrow,
we will look at the other miracles
of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
when he was born,
what had happened,
how he grew up,
and where he was sent,
and what happened thereafter,
Insha'Allah,
we will look at that.
Before I end,
I need to make mention of one point,
there are many people of today,
who have fabricated certain miracles,
they say this happened and that happened,
I want to mention two or three of them,
so that we know,
there is no need for us to fabricate anything,
because what is correct is already there,
and the miracles have already happened,
so why should we then fabricate,
it only drops the value of the story,
I heard one of the scholars say,
one of the people say,
that you know at the time,
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam was born,
the minarets of the haram made sajda,
but brother,
there were no minarets at the time,
you need to know that,
and then they said,
I've heard them say also,
that the golden stand,
where Maqam Ibrahim is got up and made sajda,
brother there was no golden stand at the time,
so let's not fool each other,
may Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam grant us,
the mahabba,
the love of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
the best of creation,
imagine the moment when he came onto the earth,
so many things across the globe had happened,
which are absolutely authentic,
which he makes mention of later on,
we ask Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
to make us appreciative of the fact,
that we are part of the ummah,
who have accepted all the prophets,
Jesus may peace be upon him,
Moses may peace be upon him,
Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
and all of them,
we respect them,
and we say,
may peace be upon them all,
and may peace be upon us,
until we meet again,
wa sallallahu wa sallam,
wa baraka ala nabina Muhammad,
subhanallah wa bihamdihi,
subhanaka allahum wa bihamdik,
nashhadu alla ilaha illa anta,
nastaghfiruka wa natubu ilayk.